# Automatic-Power-Factor-Controller
This project mainly focuses on the arrangement and development of power factor correction using Arduino as microcontroller. The power factor controller method and device are useful in improving the efficient transmission of active power. These PFC are popular because of their advantages such as high-power factor, fast dynamic response, and low cost. Digital PFC converters are more desirable because digital controllers have many advantages over the analogy controllers due to their programmability, flexibility, no temperature and aging effect, and more resistance to the input voltage distortion. Power factor correction using capacitor banks reduces reactive power consumption which will lead to minimization of losses and at the same time increases the electrical system's efficiency. Power saving issues and reactive power management has led to the development of single-phase capacitor banks for domestic and industrial applications. The development of this project is to enhance and upgrade the operation of single-phase capacitor banks by developing a microprocessor-based control system. 
Automatic power factor controller project is designed to improve power factor automatically whenever power factor falls below a certain level. More and more inductive loads are being used in industry and domestic applications. The Automatic power factor controller project provides solutions to these problems. Low power factor includes unnecessary burden on power systems and transmission lines. By improving the power factor of the power system automatically, power system efficiency can be improved. In this project, a power factor correction prototype is developed using Arduino, microcontroller, relays, potential transformer and current transformer.

